Welcome back everyone.
Before we end this section I just want to give some thoughts on higher education things like a graduate
degree has such as a masters or a Ph.D. and how that may help in your job search and what that really
means for your job search as a data scientist.
So it's a really common question that I get from students a lot.
Do I need to get a master's or a Ph.D. to pursue data science and a lot of what is about to follow.
It's really just my personal opinions then you're going to need to take the time to reflect on your
specific situation and maybe the specific company that you're applying to.
So take that into consideration as you listen to what I had to say.
In my personal opinion it's going to be harder to get a job in a position where formal requirements
like machine learning engineer without an advanced degree in a larger company.
And often recruiters that these larger companies like Facebook or Google they're going to be given requirements
for candidates to actually have either a master's or a Ph.D. and there's not going to be really allowed
to consider you if you don't have those graduate degrees.
Unless you've done something absolutely phenomenal like you created your own deep learning library that
has a lot of users.
Now if you plan to go more of an entrepreneur route such as freelancing graduate degrees become less
important.
At that point it really matters what you've done and your portfolio of projects they can show for it.
So no one's really going to care if you have a Ph.D. if you're just freelancing and you've already have
a portfolio of satisfied customers and different projects you can show off.
Now keep in mind each individual situation is different.
Many entrepreneurs come from graduate degree backgrounds and some employees at large companies that
do work has machine learning engineers for example don't actually have graduate degrees so it's a spectrum.
There's definitely different cases for each situation.
So I want to take a look at just two extremes on the spectrum of higher education so you can get an
idea of what's actually in the real world out there.
Now keep in mind most people are going to be somewhere in between these two real life examples.
I'm going to give examples of two people kind of with the extremes of the spectrum.
But again most people are going to be somewhere in between.
OK.
So let's first look at Ian Goodfellow.
I would say he's on the extreme spectrum of getting higher education.
So he has a bachelor's and master's in computer science from Stanford University and then continued
on to get a Ph.D. in machine learning.
He's a co-author on a book on deep learning and more importantly he's one of the creators of generative
adversarial networks which is a very popular and very trending type of neural network in the deep learning
space that allows you to basically generate examples of data now.
Ian Goodfellow here he used to work at Google.
Then he moved on to open AI and I believe now he's actually back at Google.
As you can imagine someone of his skill set and his technical knowledge isn't really high demand so
by the time you listen to this maybe he works somewhere else but this will be an example of someone
who's gone the graduate degree route and it's worked out very well for him.
And there are also a lot of opportunities to work with a lot of other talented people in some of the
labs he was working in as well as getting an opportunity to co-author a book on deep learning.
So that's one end of the spectrum of how pursuing a graduate degree can really help you on your path
to becoming a data scientist or in this case an expert in machine learning bullets go ahead and take
a look at someone on the opposite side of the spectrum and that would be Adam Gibson who is actually
a college dropout and yet he's the creator of a library called Deep learning for Jane which is a deep
learning library for Java.
He's also the co-founder of a Y Combinator backed company called Sky mind.
So this is someone without any sort of graduate degree.
In fact total college dropout I believe he only did his first two years in undergrad.
So again other ops and the spectrum and he took a much more entrepreneur type route where he's actually
creating his own libraries has a good portfolio and is actually able to start his own company.
Now I should mention he dropped out of college to start his company.
That doesn't mean I'm giving the advice of everyone dropped out of college and start you know a machine
learning company.
But keep in mind it is definitely possible to become a you know renowned data scientist or entrepreneur
without the background of graduate degrees.
So again two ends of the spectrum here.
Most people are not going to be one of these extremes are going to be somewhere in the middle.
So I just want to get to real life examples of people who have done it one way or the other.
So make sure you understand that the topics involved data science are complex and they're not easy to
learn.
There's really no wrong or right path to becoming a data scientist.
And you should really create your own path on your career journey.
OK.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.